Updated spinbit text (#2564)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

version.  See {{QUIC-INVARIANTS}} for details on how packets from different
versions of QUIC are interpreted.

### Latency Spin Bit {#spin-bit}

The latency spin bit enables passive latency monitoring from observation points
on the network path throughout the duration of a connection. The spin bit is
only present in the short packet header, since it is possible to measure the
initial RTT of a connection by observing the handshake. Therefore, the spin bit
is available after version negotiation and connection establishment are
completed. On-path measurement and use of the latency spin bit is further
discussed in {{QUIC-MANAGEABILITY}}.

The spin bit is an OPTIONAL feature of QUIC. A QUIC stack that chooses to

> support the spin bit MUST implement it as specified in this document.

Reviewer: document -> section

Each endpoint unilaterally decides if the spin bit is enabled or disabled for a
connection. Implementations MUST allow administrators of clients and servers
to disable the spin bit either globally or on a per-connection basis. Even when
the spin bit is not disabled by the administrator implementations MUST disable

> the spin bit on a randomly chosen fraction of connections. The random selection

Reviewer: on a randomly chosen fraction of connections -> for a given connection with a certain likelihood

process SHOULD be designed such that on average the spin bit is disabled for at

> least one eighth of network paths. The selection process should be externally

Reviewer: Is it 1/8th of *paths*? I thought it was supposed to be 1/8th of *connections*? (Related to @mirjak's comment below.)

Author: Agree, will change to connections.

unpredictable but consistent for any given combination of source and destination

> address and port. The selection process performed at the beginning of the

Reviewer 2: Should it be consistent for address/port forever? Is this restriction actually needed...? What's the reasoning for this?

Author: There was a suggestion to keep decisions consistent for a given path (client - server connection). However, re-reading that discussion, it looks like it's both over engineering and a potential privacy issue. 
I'm fine with simply stating that spinning is disabled for 1/8th of connections.

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest also adding "for privacy reasons"

connection SHOULD be applied for all paths used by the connection.

> In case multiple connections share the same five-tuple, i.e. same source and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In case multiple connections share the same five-tuple, that is, have the same source and
```

> destination IP address and UDP port the setting of the spin bit needs to be

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
destination IP address and UDP ports, the setting of the spin bit needs to be
```

> destination IP address and UDP port the setting of the spin bit needs to be

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
destination IP address and UDP ports, endpoints should try to co-ordinate across all connections to ensure a clear signal to any on-path measurement points.
```

> coordinated across all connections to ensure a clear signal to any on path

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
coordinated across all connections to ensure a clear signal to any on path
```

> measurement point, however that might not be feasible.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

When the spin bit is disabled, endpoints MAY set the spin bit to any value, and

> MUST accept any incoming value. It is RECOMMENDED that they set the spin bit to

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
MUST accept any incoming value. It is RECOMMENDED that endpoints set the spin bit to
```

> MUST accept any incoming value. It is RECOMMENDED that they set the spin bit to

Reviewer: accept -> ignore

a random value either chosen independently for each packet, or chosen

> independently for each path and kept constant for that path.

Reviewer 2: I this we should recommend to set to the same value for the whole connection. That's easier to implement, easier to cope with in the network, and I don't see a benefit of randomly setting it on a per-packet basis for the endpoint.

Reviewer 4: That creates a different signal.  Besides, we already discussed this point and (I believe, chairs can correct me), that we agreed to allow this flexibility.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should allow for this flexibility. In fact there is no way to not allow for it. I'm just saying we should recommend per-connection random values as the preferred way to do it.

If the spin bit is enabled for the connection, the endpoint maintains a spin
value and sets the spin bit in the short header to the currently stored
value when a packet with a short header is sent out. The spin value is
initialized to 0 in the endpoint at connection start.  Each endpoint also
remembers the highest packet number seen from its peer on the connection.

When a server receives a short header packet that increments the highest
packet number seen by the server from the client, it sets the spin value to be
equal to the spin bit in the received packet.

When a client receives a short header packet that increments the highest
packet number seen by the client from the server, it sets the spin value to the
inverse of the spin bit in the received packet.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a sentence, explaining why this is done, e.g. "With this mechanism, the server reflects the spin value received, while the client 'spins' it after one RTT. On network observers can measure the time between two spin bit toggle events and thereby estimate the end-to-end RTT of a connection, e.g. for network monitoring purposes."

version.  See {{QUIC-INVARIANTS}} for details on how packets from different
versions of QUIC are interpreted.

### Latency Spin Bit {#spin-bit}

The latency spin bit enables passive latency monitoring from observation points
on the network path throughout the duration of a connection. The spin bit is
only present in the short packet header, since it is possible to measure the
initial RTT of a connection by observing the handshake. Therefore, the spin bit
is available after version negotiation and connection establishment are
completed. On-path measurement and use of the latency spin bit is further
discussed in {{QUIC-MANAGEABILITY}}.

The spin bit is an OPTIONAL feature of QUIC. A QUIC stack that chooses to
support the spin bit MUST implement it as specified in this section.

Each endpoint unilaterally decides if the spin bit is enabled or disabled for a
connection. Implementations MUST allow administrators of clients and servers
to disable the spin bit either globally or on a per-connection basis. Even when

> the spin bit is not disabled by the administrator implementations MUST disable

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the spin bit is not disabled by the administrator, implementations MUST disable
```

the spin bit for a given connection with a certain likelihood. The random
selection process SHOULD be designed such that on average the spin bit is
disabled for at least one eighth of connections. The selection process performed
at the beginning of the connection SHOULD be applied for all paths used by the
connection.

In case multiple connections share the same five-tuple, that is, have the same
source and destination IP address and UDP ports, endpoints should try to
co-ordinate across all connections to ensure a clear signal to any on-path
measurement points.

When the spin bit is disabled, endpoints MAY set the spin bit to any value, and
MUST ignore any incoming value. It is RECOMMENDED that endpoints set the spin
bit to a random value either chosen independently for each packet or chosen

> independently for each connection.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
independently for each connection ID.
```
